feat(DST-944): add destructive actions pattern with undo support (#5714)
marigold-ui/marigold: docs/content/patterns/feedback/destructive-actions/index.mdx

---

> title: Destructive Actions

Reviewer: 💡 Two structural notes, neither blocking

**Placement.** This sits under `patterns/feedback`, but the page is mostly about *gating an action* rather than reporting one — the confirmation half especially. Its closest sibling, `bulk-actions`, lives under `patterns/user-input`. Debatable rather than wrong, and moving it later costs a redirect, so worth deciding now rather than after the links are out in the world.

**Missing section.** Other Marigold pattern pages pair "Key principles" with "When to use" / "When not to use". This page has the first and not the second. Given the intro's strong claim that a confirmation on a harmless action weakens every dialog in the product, a "When not to use" section has obvious material to work with — the replace-an-uploaded-file example at line 26 is already exactly that, currently buried mid-paragraph.

Author: **Missing section** is in: "When not to use", built from the replace-an-uploaded-file case, which is now a bullet of its own rather than buried in the paragraph, plus two more (nothing is lost, redoing it costs a click). It sits between "Key principles" and the decision table.

**Placement** stays under `patterns/feedback` for now. Both halves are about the recovery path the user sees, and the undo half is literally a toast. It is a genuine coin flip and nothing links to the page yet, so if you would rather have it next to `bulk-actions` under `user-input` say so and I will move it before merge, while a redirect still costs nothing.

Reviewer: "When not to use" reads well, and pulling the replace-an-uploaded-file case out of the paragraph into a bullet of its own is what makes it usable.

**Placement: keep it under `patterns/feedback`.** Your argument wins on the folder's coherence — `feedback-messages` and this page are both about what the system tells the user and how they get back out of it, whereas `user-input` is about how users express intent. A page whose second half is toast lifecycle sits badly there. My "it's really about gating" point holds for the confirmation half only, and that half is one dialog while the undo half is the mechanism nothing else documents.

The adjacency to `bulk-actions` is real either way, so do it with links rather than folders: this page already lists Bulk Actions under Related, and `bulk-actions` has a `Related` TeaserList with no link back. Adding the reverse entry puts them one hop apart from either direction, and nothing ever needs a redirect.

description: Decide whether a destructive action needs a confirmation or an undo, and build the one it needs.
---

Deleting, removing, clearing and overwriting are the actions users regret. Every one of them needs a recovery path, and there are only two: stop the user before it happens, or let them take it back afterwards. This page decides which one an action gets, and shows how to build both.

Picking the wrong one is not a neutral mistake. A confirmation on a harmless action trains users to click through dialogs, which weakens every dialog in the product. An undo on an action the user cannot perceive announces a safety net that was never really there.

<Callout title="Note">
  The confirmation half of this page reflects patterns already in use across
  Reservix products. The undo half is new and has no product implementation yet.
  If your team is about to build one, [get in
  touch](/getting-started/get-in-touch) so we can observe it.
</Callout>

## Key principles

- **Recoverable.** Every destructive action offers either a way to stop or a way to take it back.
- **Specific.** The recovery path names the thing being destroyed, never "this item".

> - **Honest.** Never promise a recovery the system cannot deliver.

Reviewer: 💡 This principle and "reports the action as done" are in tension, and the page reconciles neither

*"Honest. Never promise a recovery the system cannot deliver."* Then line 87: an undo toast *"reports the action as done"* while the work is still pending.

That's the mirror image of the dishonesty this principle warns about — claiming a destruction that hasn't happened yet. It's defensible: the deferral is invisible, and the reported outcome is the one that arrives. But the page asserts both and leaves the reader to notice.

One sentence at line 87 would do it — something to the effect that reporting the deletion up front is honest *because* the commit is guaranteed by the toast's own lifecycle, which is exactly why the `setTimeout` variant below is not just fragile but dishonest.

Author: Added at the top of "Offering undo", right after the sentence that introduces the deferral: reporting the deletion up front is honest because the toast's own lifecycle guarantees the commit, since every way a toast can close ends with the request going out. That is also what makes the `setTimeout` version dishonest rather than merely fragile, which sets up the section below it.

- **Singular.** One safety net per action, not two.

## Choosing between confirmation and undo

First check the action is destructive at all. Some actions look it and are not, and the clearest example is replacing an uploaded file: the user picks the replacement in the operating system's own file dialog, which they can cancel before anything changes. The confirmation already exists there, and it is the platform's. Putting another one in front of it asks the same question twice, which is the [never use both](#never-use-both) problem wearing a different hat.

For everything that is destructive, work through these four questions in order. The first "no" decides to use a confirmation.

| Question                                                 | Why it matters                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **Is it a single item, rather than a bulk action?**      | Bulk multiplies the cost of a mistake by the size of the selection. Bulk always confirms.                                 |

Reviewer: 💡 Only two tiers — consider naming the typed-confirmation escalation

This row sends *all* bulk actions to a plain confirmation. That under-serves the high end: "delete 4,000 recipients" and "remove one row" get the same dialog, differing only in copy.

GitHub, Stripe and AWS all add a third tier for high-consequence irreversible deletes — type the resource name to enable the confirm button. It's deliberately high-friction, and that's the point: it defeats the click-through habit the intro correctly worries about.

Marigold has no component for this today, so I'd not expect a demo. But a sentence acknowledging the tier, and where the boundary sits, would keep teams from concluding the page has no answer for the case.

Author: Named it below the table: the boundary (a high-consequence irreversible delete, a whole account or thousands of recipients), what the escalation is (type the name of the thing before the confirm button enables), why it is deliberately high-friction, and that Marigold has no component for it, so it gets built in place for now with a pointer to get in touch.

| **Is the effect visible where the user is looking?**     | Undo depends on the user noticing inside a few seconds. An item they already scrolled past is not noticed at all.         |
| **Is it unmistakable which item was affected?**          | If the list reads as near-identical rows, the user cannot verify that the right one disappeared before the window closes. |
| **Is a short delay safe, with no external side effect?** | A notification, a payment or a webhook cannot be deferred ambiguously, and cannot be recalled once it is out.             |

> Four times yes means the action can offer undo.

Reviewer: 💡 The decision rule is easy to skim past, and this sentence reads awkwardly

Two small things in one place:

1. "Four times yes means the action can offer undo" parses as a puzzle for a beat.
2. More importantly, the rule that actually drives the table — *the first "no" decides to use a confirmation* — sits in prose at line 28, **above** the table, where a reader who jumps straight to the questions will miss it entirely.

```suggestion
If all four answers are yes, the action can offer undo. The first "no" decides a confirmation.
```

That restates the rule *below* the table as well as above it, so it's unmissable from either reading direction.

Author: Took the sentence, and removed the duplicate clause from the paragraph above the table so the rule is not stated twice verbatim one line apart. It now reads once, immediately under the questions, where a reader who skipped straight to the table lands.

<ComponentDemo name="file-delete-confirm" />

<Callout title="Known limitation">
  `FileField.Item`'s remove button carries a fixed accessible name ("Remove
  file") that cannot be overridden yet, so on a list like this one every remove
  button sounds the same to a screen reader. Until that changes, the
  confirmation dialog is the only place the file gets named, which makes the
  first rule below load-bearing rather than merely nice.
</Callout>

What the dialog owes the user:

- **Name the object.** "Delete file?" with the filename in the body, not "Are you sure?".
- **State the consequence plainly.** Say that it cannot be undone, and say what else goes with it.
- **Repeat the verb in the confirm button.** "Delete file" rather than "OK", so the button reads as the decision it is.
- **Leave the safe path as the default.** The `destructive` variant focuses Cancel on open, so a reflexive <kbd>Enter</kbd> cancels. Pass `autoFocusButton` to override.

> Dismissing the dialog with <kbd>Escape</kbd> resolves as `cancelled`. A press outside does not dismiss a confirmation at all, which is deliberate: a stray click next to the dialog should not decide anything. Never treat a dismissal as consent, and do not block <kbd>Escape</kbd> to prevent mis-clicks: an `alertdialog` the keyboard cannot escape is an accessibility defect, not a safety feature.

Reviewer: ⚠️ **`<ConfirmationDialog.Trigger>` blocks <kbd>Escape</kbd> by default — the exact thing this paragraph tells teams not to do**

The rule here is right: *"an `alertdialog` the keyboard cannot escape is an accessibility defect, not a safety feature."* But Marigold's own declarative API for confirmations violates it.

`DialogTrigger.tsx:35` does `isKeyboardDismissDisabled: !keyboardDismissable`, so an unset `keyboardDismissable` becomes `true`. That flows through `Dialog.tsx:155` → `Underlay.tsx:36` → RAC. Net effect:

- via `useConfirmation` (controlled, `DialogContext` defaults to `{}`) → <kbd>Escape</kbd> **works**
- via `<ConfirmationDialog.Trigger>` → <kbd>Escape</kbd> is **blocked**

Two independent confirmations that this isn't a misreading: `ConfirmationDialog.stories.tsx`'s `Basic` sets no `keyboardDismissable` and has no Escape test, while `Dialog.stories.tsx` has to set `keyboardDismissable: true` explicitly in `args` for `Dialog.test.tsx:39` ("supports closing the dialog with escape key") to pass.

Pre-existing and outside this diff — but this page is what turns it into a documented contradiction. Since DST-1515 already spawned one follow-up ticket for the `FileField` escape hatch, this belongs on it. In the meantime consider scoping the sentence to the hook, so the page isn't asserting something the trigger-based path doesn't honour.

Author: Fixed rather than scoped. `DialogTrigger` now defaults `keyboardDismissable = true`, so an unset prop no longer inverts into "keyboard dismiss disabled". That matches `Tray`, `TrayModal` and `useNonModal`, which all already defaulted to `true` — `Dialog` was the outlier — and it makes the Dialog page's existing claim that "pressing the Esc key" closes a dialog true for the trigger path.

New story test on `ConfirmationDialog`, whose `Basic` sets no `keyboardDismissable`, so it exercises the default. I stashed the one-line fix and re-ran it to confirm it fails without it. The changeset lists it as a visible behaviour change, and the Dialog page documents the `keyboardDismissable={false}` opt-out with the reason not to reach for it.

Reviewer: Fixing it beats scoping the sentence, and stashing the one-line fix to watch the test fail is the right way to prove the story covers the default rather than the arg. The finding itself is closed.

Two things next to it, neither blocking:

1. `Dialog.stories.tsx:47` still sets `keyboardDismissable: true` in `args`. That's now redundant, and it means `Dialog.test.tsx`'s Escape test would keep passing if the default ever regressed — the only coverage of the new default is the `ConfirmationDialog` story. Dropping the arg moves the coverage to where the behaviour now lives, for one line.

2. The inversion the default rests on is mislabeled twice on the way down: `DialogTrigger.tsx:35` puts `!keyboardDismissable` into the context, `Dialog.tsx:155` passes that already-negated flag into a prop *named* `keyboardDismissable`, and `Underlay.tsx:36` assigns it straight to `isKeyboardDismissDisabled`. Net behaviour is correct — I traced it before filing the original finding — but two hops carry a boolean whose name means the opposite of its value. `Loader.tsx:42` is the evidence that it already misleads: it passes `keyboardDismissable` to `Underlay` and thereby *disables* keyboard dismiss. Pre-existing and out of scope, but this PR is what makes the default load-bearing, so it belongs on the same follow-up ticket.

Author: Both taken, in `960b37ed5`.

1. `keyboardDismissable: true` is out of `Dialog.stories.tsx`'s args. You're right about what it was hiding: `Dialog.test.tsx`'s Escape test was passing on the arg, not on the default, so the only coverage of the new behaviour was the `ConfirmationDialog` story. It now exercises the default, and the eight Dialog/Drawer/Tray/Overlay unit files plus the Dialog story tests are green without it.

2. The double-mislabeled negation is on the follow-up ticket, recorded in the PR description so it doesn't evaporate. `Loader.tsx:42` is the good catch there — it reads as "keyboard dismissable" and does the opposite, which is exactly what a name that means its own inverse buys you.

Reviewer: Both confirmed on `960b37ed5`.

1. `keyboardDismissable: true` is out of `Dialog.stories.tsx`'s args, so the Escape test now passes on the default rather than on the arg, which is where the coverage needed to live.
2. The double-mislabeled negation is recorded in the PR description, so it survives the merge instead of evaporating with this thread.

Resolving.

<GuidelineTiles>
  <Do>
    <DoDescription>
      Name the object in the title or body, and repeat the verb in the confirm
      button so the decision is readable from the button alone.
    </DoDescription>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <DontDescription>
      Don't ask "Are you sure?" with OK and Cancel. It carries no information
      about what is about to happen.
    </DontDescription>
  </Dont>
</GuidelineTiles>

## Offering undo

> An undo toast reports the action as done, hides its effect immediately, and sends the real request only when the toast closes. Until then the work is pending and a single press takes it back.

Reviewer: 🔴 **An undo toast built with `variant="warning"` or `"error"` never commits — and neither does `timeout: 0`**

This is the one finding on the page that can cost real data if someone follows it literally.

`resolveTimeout` in `ToastQueue.ts` returns `undefined` for `warning` and `error` (and for `timeout <= 0`), which means no `Timer` is created and the toast persists until manually dismissed. Combined with commit-on-`onClose`, the deletion then hangs indefinitely: the interface has already reported the row gone, and the request never goes out unless the user happens to dismiss the toast.

The trap is easy to walk into from two directions:

- reaching for `variant="warning"` because a pending deletion feels like it warrants weight, and
- reaching for `timeout: 0` thinking it gives the user *unlimited* time to undo, when it actually means "never commit".

The page never mentions `timeout` or variant choice for undo toasts at all. Worth an explicit **Don't**, since the mechanism this page introduces is what creates the hazard.

While you're here: the effective window is `MINIMUM_TIMEOUT_MS = 5000` with `Math.max`, so 5s is both the default *and* the floor — you cannot make an undo window shorter, and there is no ceiling. Showing `timeout` in the example would let teams size the window deliberately instead of inheriting it.

Author: Covered in three places. The page now has an explicit **Don't** for `variant="warning"`, `variant="error"` and `timeout: 0` on an undo toast, the Do example passes `timeout` so the window is a decision rather than an inheritance, and a sentence states that 5000ms is both the default and a `Math.max` floor with no ceiling.

The same constraint went into `ToastOptions.onClose`'s JSDoc, which is where someone reaching for a warning variant will actually be reading.

No dev-time warning for the combination: `onClose` on a persistent toast is legitimate whenever the handler is cleanup rather than a deferred commit, so it would fire on correct code.

Reviewer: Covered, and `ToastOptions.onClose`'s JSDoc is the right second home for it: that is where someone reaching for a warning variant is actually reading.

One residual. `undo-delete.demo.tsx` still doesn't pass `timeout`. The page now says to set it deliberately rather than inherit it, and the Do snippet shows `timeout: 8000`, but the demo — the thing teams copy — inherits the default. That's your own argument against the reducer rewrite pointed the other way: whatever ships in the demo is the shape that gets copied, so the page and its reference implementation should agree.

Agreed on no dev-time warning. `onClose` as cleanup on a persistent toast is legitimate, so it would fire on correct code.

Author: This one is aimed at wording that has since gone. The `/simplify` pass cut the "set `timeout` deliberately rather than inheriting it" sentence and the `timeout: 8000` snippet along with it — the snippet was a hand-copied duplicate of the demo seven lines above, and the demo already highlights those exact lines. What the page says now is that the window is 5000ms unless you pass `timeout`, that 5000 is also the floor, and that five to ten seconds is the common range, so pass a value when the decision needs longer. A three-row list at the default is consistent with that, so the disagreement you found is gone rather than fixed.

Happy to add an explicit `timeout` to the demo anyway if you'd rather it model the option existing — one line, and I take the point that the demo is the shape teams copy. Your call.

The residual worth more than that one: `addUndoToast` now owns the timeout, and it deliberately diverges from `addToast` on `0`. `addToast({ timeout: 0 })` persists; `addUndoToast({ timeout: 0 })` falls back to the default window, because an undo toast that never closes never commits. That divergence is in `UndoToastOptions.timeout`'s JSDoc and pinned by a test in the timeout-resolution block.

Reviewer: My call: **leave the demo at the default.**

My original argument was that the demo is the shape teams copy, and it held when the recipe was hand-assembled — a caller who never saw `timeout` had no idea the window was theirs to size. That is not the situation any more. `addUndoToast` owns the timeout, `0` falls back to the default window instead of meaning "never commit", and `timeout` is on the generated props table. The fallback is now a property of the API rather than something a caller can fumble, so a demo sitting at the default is the honest default rather than an omission.

The divergence from `addToast` on `0` is the right one, and putting it in `UndoToastOptions.timeout`'s JSDoc with a test in the timeout-resolution block is where it belongs — that is the one place someone reaching for "unlimited undo" will actually read.

Resolving.

<ComponentDemo name="undo-delete" />

Three pieces make this work:

1. **Hide the effect straight away** so the interface responds at once. Keep the committed data separate from what is hidden, so restoring puts the row back where it was.
2. **Commit from the toast's `onClose`.** This is the part that is easy to get wrong, see below.
3. **Guard the commit.** Pressing Undo has to both restore the item and prevent the commit, because closing the toast runs `onClose` either way.

> <Callout title="Two buttons, opposite outcomes">

Reviewer: ⚠️ **This callout names a design smell and then shrugs — it's the weakest part of the page**

The observation is sharp and correct: Close reads as "get this out of my way" while it actually means "go through with the deletion". Then the advice is *"say what happened in the title"*, which doesn't resolve the mismatch — it just hopes the user read the title before reaching for a button that means the opposite of what it looks like.

Two fixes are available and both are real designs:

1. **Hide the close button on undo toasts.** The toast already self-dismisses, and the Undo button is the way out. Close earns nothing here except the ambiguity.
2. **Commit only on timeout, so Close cancels the commit.** Then the button means what it looks like. This costs the `onClose` symmetry the section above argues for, so it's the bigger change — but it's the one that makes the affordance honest.

As written the page documents a footgun it is in a position to design away. Given that the same mechanism also produces the `clearToasts` behaviour below, I'd rather see this decided than described.

Author: Decided, though not one of the two. The callout now names the constraint instead of shrugging: `Toast` renders its close button unconditionally, so an undo toast cannot drop it today, which is why the title has to carry the meaning.

Option 1 needs a `closeButton` option on `ToastOptions` threaded to `Toast.tsx`. Small, but I would rather it land with `addUndoToast`, which can pass it itself and make the ambiguity unreachable rather than merely undocumented. Option 2 costs the `onClose` symmetry the rest of the page rests on, including the `clearToasts` behaviour, so it is the one change I do not want to make in the same PR that argues for it.

Both are on the follow-up ticket with `addUndoToast`.

Reviewer: Better than either option I offered. Naming the constraint — `Toast` renders its close button unconditionally, so the title has to carry the meaning — is honest in a way "say what happened in the title" wasn't, because it says *why* the title is doing that work.

Agreed on the sequencing. Option 1 wants a `closeButton` option that `addUndoToast` can set itself, and option 2 would cost the `onClose` symmetry the rest of the page argues from; making that trade in the same PR that introduces the argument is the wrong order. Resolving, it's on the follow-up.

  Say what happened in the title, so a user who reaches for Close has already
  read what they are about to keep.
</Callout>

### Commit from onClose, never from your own timer

The obvious implementation pairs the toast with a `setTimeout` of the same length. It is broken. React Aria pauses a toast's timer while the toast region is hovered or focused, so that users get time to read it. A separate timer does not pause. The moment a user moves the pointer towards the Undo button, the two clocks separate: the toast stays on screen looking live, and the deletion commits underneath it. Pressing Undo then does nothing.

Driving the commit from `onClose` keeps "the toast is gone" and "the work is committed" the same event, whichever way the toast closes.

```tsx
// Don't: two clocks that drift apart on hover.
addToast({ title: 'Deleted', action: <UndoButton /> });
setTimeout(() => commit(), 5000);

// Do: one clock, owned by the toast.
addToast({ title: 'Deleted', action: <UndoButton />, onClose: () => commit() });
```

### What undo cannot cover

Deferring the request buys the undo window, and it costs these:

> - **Leaving the page abandons the commit.** Close the tab during the window and the request never goes out, while the interface already reported the deletion. Keep windows short, and prefer a confirmation wherever the user is likely to navigate away, such as inside a form.

Reviewer: ⚠️ **No undo-window duration, and nothing on WCAG 2.2.1**

"Keep windows short" is the only guidance the page gives on duration, and it never lands a number. In practice the window *is* 5s: `MINIMUM_TIMEOUT_MS = 5000` is both the default and a `Math.max` floor. Common guidance (Material, NN/g) is 5–10s, so saying so would cost one clause.

The larger gap: an auto-committing timer is a time limit on a user action, which puts this pattern squarely inside **WCAG 2.2.1 (Timing Adjustable)**. Five seconds is not a usable window for a screen-reader or switch-access user — they will not hear the toast, locate the Undo button, and press it in time. That has a real consequence for the decision table above: the accessibility answer is that confirmation is correct in *more* cases than four-times-yes implies, and undo is a mechanism with an access floor rather than a neutral alternative.

Right now the page's a11y content is the `FileField` naming limitation and "don't block Escape". Both good, but neither touches the timing question, which is the one this pattern actually creates.

Author: Added as a fourth bullet under "What undo cannot cover": the window is a time limit, so WCAG 2.2.1 applies; the extension mechanism does exist, since `useToastRegion` calls `pauseAll()` while the region is hovered or focused and the region is a `useLandmark({role: 'region'})` reachable with <kbd>F6</kbd>; and it is not discoverable, so undo carries an accessibility floor a confirmation does not. The bullet ends where you did: let the four questions fall towards confirmation wherever the user may not be watching.

The 5000ms default-and-floor is stated with the `timeout` guidance further up. I also dropped "keep windows short" from the navigation bullet, since it was pulling against this.

- **Dismissing the toast commits early.** A user who clears the toast to get it out of the way ends their own window.

> - **Clearing the queue commits everything at once.** `clearToasts` runs every close handler, so a global clear puts through every deferred deletion rather than dropping it. That is the safe direction, but it is still a decision the user did not make one item at a time.

Reviewer: 💡 "That is the safe direction" is asserted, and I think it's the wrong way round

Putting through a batch of deletions the user never individually confirmed looks like the *un*safe direction to me: dropping deferred deletions is recoverable (the data survives, the user retries), committing them is not.

If the reasoning is "the interface already said 'deleted', so dropping them would make the UI a liar" — that's a good argument, and it's the one that makes this consistent with the honesty principle. But it's doing real work here and it isn't on the page. Worth spelling out, because a reader who reaches the opposite conclusion has no way to tell whether it was considered.

Author: The reasoning is on the page now, and it is the one you guessed: it is the safe direction because the interface has already reported each of those deletions, so dropping them would leave the user looking at a list that quietly grew its rows back. The sentence keeps the caveat that it is still a decision the user did not make one item at a time.

> ### When your api can restore

Reviewer: 💡 `api` → `API` in the heading (and the anchor it generates)

```suggestion
### When your API can restore
```

Note this also changes the slug to `#when-your-api-can-restore`, which is what line 39 already links to — so that in-page link keeps working either way, but check it after the edit.

Author: Applied. The slug is unchanged, since it lowercases either way, so the line-39 link still resolves.

If the operation is genuinely reversible on the server, prefer sending the request immediately and having Undo call the restore endpoint. It survives navigation, it needs no window, and it reports the truth. Use the deferred form above only when the underlying operation cannot be taken back, which in practice is most of the time.

## Content guidelines

Toasts follow the [feedback message](/patterns/feedback/feedback-messages) guidelines. Two rules matter here in particular.

Name what happened to what. "Newsletter August deleted" tells a user who mis-clicked exactly what they lost, and "Item deleted" does not. For bulk actions, carry the count instead, as described in [Bulk Actions](/patterns/user-input/bulk-actions).

Label the recovery with the verb, not the outcome. "Undo" is understood. "Restore", "Revert" and "Cancel" all invite a second reading, and "Cancel" is actively ambiguous next to a completed action.

## Related

> - [Dialog](/components/overlay/dialog) for the confirmation component and the `useConfirmation` hook.

Reviewer: 💡 Two existing pattern pages cover this ground and aren't linked from either side

`patterns/data/fetching-and-mutations/index.mdx:202` already has a "confirming destructive actions" section built on `useConfirmation`, and its `optimistic-delete.demo.tsx` is a *working implementation* of what the "When your api can restore" section above recommends in prose (confirm → optimistic removal → toast naming the row → rollback on error → invalidate on settle).

This list has five entries and misses the closest neighbour. Worth linking in both directions — and the "When your api can restore" section in particular should point at that demo rather than describing it, since the demo is more convincing than the paragraph.

Author: Linked in both directions. "When your API can restore" now points at `fetching-and-mutations#destructive-actions` and says what the `optimistic-delete` demo does, instead of describing the shape in prose; the Related list carries the same link; and that page's own destructive-actions section now points back here for the choice between confirming and offering undo.
